first thing.
I did find out that there is an Azure
DevOps MCMCP extension.
And you can get that extension by first.
You can go ahead and try to do a search
for at MCP and if that doesn't Azure
DevOps that didn't show up anything,
then you can.
You need to go to the into VS code and
make a change to and and enable the
gallery if it's not and then not allow
you to do this search and find this
extension. So let's see, let's go into.
Yeah.
And if we look at the extensions.
And then say at MCP this restricts this
just to MCP servers and do Azure DevOps.
OK.
All right, while we're waiting for that,
I can show you something else that was
kind of interesting.
Uh, yesterday.
Oh, there it is. It showed up.
Finally.
Oh.
Really slow.
So here we go. There's Azure DevOps.
Let me pop this up so we can take a look
at it and.
Uh.
So these are some examples of the kinds
of things you can do with it.
So you can now essentially using this
manipulate Azure DevOps through the A I
and here's a list of the.
The supported tools of which for.
There's a whole list of supported tools.
One of them is um.
Or or I see it's get work items list
right here like here we could.
A tool for creating work items.
So now you could create a prompt or or a
a chat mode or an instruction that would
actually create a work item in Azure,
Azure DevOps.
So this was based on what we were talking
about trying to do yesterday.
This would essentially allow you to do
the same thing by using that tool.
Any questions there?
All right, that's cool.
So go back to the slide. So.
Today we want to get deeper into
understanding legacy code,
so we'll look at generating documentation,
architecture diagrams,
updating readme files,
and then identify and explain complex or
confusing code.
It's a part and then we'll then get into
starting to.
And to do some additional modifications.
I've got a couple of ideas that I think
will be interesting that we can use to
explore our code, our code bases.
So let's go back and just talk about.
Doing some documentation on existing code.
If we go and look at our code base,
we've got.
A couple of files here that we've created
in our calculator and if we.
One of the things that we we can see that
there are already some comments.
They were put into the code,
but it's not consistent.
So this is something that you can do
fairly easily is you can do a control I
and then you can just say you know
document.
This code.
And it will then.
Look at the code and where it sees there.
There needs to be a further explanation.
Add additional comments.
And so here, step by step,
it's going to read this file,
add XML documentation comments to the
classes,
and here we see that it's actually going
about adding those.
To the class.
And here we can see what the what it
decided to wanted to change and.
In the file.
So instead of just the public class that
with a simple memory,
it's added the XML based comments that
document the functionality that's
actually that we've actually implemented
so far.
Um.
It's also added comments internally
within the within the the methods and
just added additional documentation.
Here's comments about the the static
decimal method.
And so you see that it's decided that
that we wants to add additional
documentation.
Here is removes some of the code and put
code back in its place that has
additional documentation in it.
So this is really, you know,
a simple way that you can quickly
document your code.
While you're writing it,
but and I have to spend a lot of effort
in doing so and it's you know,
it does a a pretty decent job on that.
Any questions there?
So we can go ahead and.
Except these these changes.
Uh, both in turn.
We did a bit of this yesterday, but.
Um.
The other things that we can do is is
where's my accept all button?
Here, there we go. All right,
so the other thing that we can do is we
can take a look at the any any piece of
code that we like and.
So here's the implementation of this
replace function.
She can select this code.
This is maybe too much to actually take
on.
But we can select a a piece of code like
this and and just ask and do another
control I and ask to explain that code.
This is useful if you've got,
if you're either not familiar with the
syntax of the language or if it's doing
something that that you don't quite
understand.
This will allow you to actually.
It will allow you to have an explanation
of the code and it will then provide a.
A step by step or line by line
explanation of what's actually going on.
And again,
this is really helpful when you're you're
working in code you're not familiar with
and you want to make sure that you
understand it. And it's also, I think,
useful in code that's generated like this
code is because it may be the first time
that you've actually seen it.
So is it possible then when the
explanation is given to add comments into
this section and and capture this
explanation that way?
Sure, yes, yeah, that's very doable.
You can just add another if we were to
say, OK,
just give me an explanation of this line
of these two lines.
We can then just follow that up with a
prompt that says add a comment to this
effect or add this as a comment to the
code.
Yeah.
But that would be a pretty big comment,
right?
Yeah, that's right.
And you know, to be, you know,
perfectly honest,
if you can select a piece of code and
have it explained in this level of detail.
At any point in time,
what's the value of the comment, right?
Hmm.
The other thing that you can do that I
think is would would be useful is that
you can just go.
Let's close this explanation.
You can just go into the chat window and
say you know update.
The documentation.
Mhm.
For this file.
And then the file is the entire file or
the section that you have highlighted.
Yeah.
So here notice that it's only referencing
the the the.
This long like.
Just that section of the file. If I was,
if I deselect that now the the the
OK, good.
context is the entire entire file.
So we had that control it.
And you can even do something like.
For this project.
And it will it will think basically go
through the whole project and and update
read me files and the other things and I
often I often do this as update the for
this for the.
The current state.
of the project.
And then this will take a more holistic
view of the project,
look at all the files,
and then generate additional
documentation.
You can also get more specific in terms
of what kinds of documentation that
you're looking for.
So it looks like so now it's taking it's
looking at at the reading files and
updating the read me files.
And we should see.
Some changes there 'cause we haven't
spent a good deal of time.
Focusing on changes to read me.
Oh,
there was something else I wanted to show
you. I'll get to that right after this.
So here in the readme file,
it's giving putting in a project overview.
Yeah.
While this is thinking,
why don't I show you that I I just need
to find the right window.
Yeah.
All right, so.
So when I was, you know,
working in experimenting last night or
yesterday,
this little icon showed up again.
It had been there for a little while and
it disappeared and now it's back,
but it's not back for all of the.
Projects that I have open,
it's only only that for.
Uh, we can't see it in this one.
It's only back for this one window that
showed up,
which I thought was interesting.
And what that's what this does is.
There's two way basically delegate this
task to a background coding agent and
what'll it's interesting how it works in
that if we were to give a prompt,
let's see, we're here.
Um,
what would be something interesting to to
look at?
How about we'll just ask it to create?
The chat mode.
For updating.
Documentation.
Patient.
And then we can say, all right,
so I want to have this done in the
background.
And So what the what what Copilot will do
now is.
It says OK,
Copilot Asia will continue your work.
Your chat context will be used to
continue work in a new pull request.
So it's going if we say go ahead and
continue and then it will.
Open up this chat in a the chat window.
Separate chat window.
And so here it's saying we're delegating
this to the coding agent.
And then it's going to run in a in a more
autonomous function with the idea that
it's going to create a pull request.
It's going to implement the work that
you've asked it to to take on,
and then you can then it will, you know,
create a create create a pull request.
Requests at the end. What's it? Well,
it's gonna.
What it's gonna do at first is create a
branch,
then it's gonna implement the code on
that branch and then it's going to.
Uh.
Create a pull request and and submit that
pull request.
So I just got a a a piece of toast
notification that our previous request
here has completed which is a a feature
that's I I can't demonstrate to you.
Because it shows up in a different
monitor.
But if you've executed a prompt and then
you go and change your focus to a
different task,
maybe your e-mail program or something
else, when it completes that tab, it will.
It will give you a piece of toast and
allow you to go back to where you were.
So let's see.
Uh, so this is not our documentation.
Let's go like,
take a look and see what our.
Uh.
Where's our window that?
Yeah, here we go.
So it's starting that process, it's.
It's looking for the to see if there's an
existing chat mode for that function.
It's noticed that there's already some
existing chat modes.
It it.
But the whole point is that this is this
is done in a a more autonomous way and it
allows us to delegate these tasks into
the into a background thread,
which means that we're free to do other
other tasks.
We can actually spin up multiple back end
threads. That's what will go.
And implement different aspects of it.
So this makes addresses.
One issue that I've had when I'm working
with working with Copilot is that it is
very single threaded and at this point in
terms that once you've submitted a prompt.
You're pretty much dedicating your
machine to addressing that. You can do,
you know,
quick chats and some other things like
that,
but you're not really able to spin up.
You know multiple multiple prompts and
get those prompts to be executing at the
same time.
The only way that I was aware that to do
that would be to you know to try to do
the execute the other prompts in Visual
Studio or on a different machine.
Maybe a a VM or something,
but this allows us to to actually
accomplish even more code generation by
actually having multiple different chat
windows executing at the same time.
Any questions on that?
All right, so let's take a look at the.
Documentation that it created here in the
README file.
There's a small section up at at the top.
It gives us a project overview and then
down at the bottom it added a project
structure that lists what the folders are
and what what's in each folder.
Getting started section that tells you
what the prerequisites that we need to
actually be able to work on this project,
how to build it and run it,
how to build and run the the the front
end, how to run the tests.
What the CICD pipeline looks like,
quality and testing in terms to what the
current line coverage is, branch coverage,
total tests, et cetera.
Some recent test gap analysis that I ran
last night that we'll redo today.
Identified some things,
key areas needing test which will also
will take on today and then it added a
test section here to the projects and
this is something I think is really
useful because this high level.
And documentation is something that we
tend to not to want to keep up to date.
And you know,
AI has no problems with doing very
comprehensive documentation like this and
we can do a simple, you know.
Task or use up a prompt that will just
update that documentation anytime the
project has made any significant change
to it or it could even be a part of your
your hygiene for a pull request is that
that there's an update to the
documentation that just goes along with
it and instead.
of having to turn through the the code
base,
it will just go ahead and and do that for
you.
Any questions on this so far?
Alright,
so let's keep those changes since that
seems pretty good. Let's go and um.
So John,
maybe maybe a quick follow up as as the
Say.
Yes.
code base that evolves.
Then this would be part of the build
process to update site documentation or a
read me and have it in sync.
You.
Is that how you structure it?
Yeah, yeah, that's certainly possible.
Yes, we we talked about this, you know,
working things into into the pull request
and into the pipeline and well,
I think we'll have time to do those those
kinds of explorations a bit later today.
Right.
Awesome. Thank you.
And try to build up,
try to build up some of it so that you
can see how you could potentially include
this in your pipeline and have this
always In Sync with the actual code base
with every with every push to the repo,
which is really be cool.
Thank you.
Uh, sure.
So update the documentation with.
A mermaid.
Arch text true.
Um.
Include sequence diagrams.
I it's actually pretty bad this morning.
Diagrams. What else? Um.
A class diagram.
And this is also useful in terms of the
documentation,
because it's again something that can
fall out of synchronisation with the rest
of the code. And you know,
mermaid diagrams are are particularly
useful. This is a flavour of.
Of markdown and here we see the system
architecture diagram here and and since
it's markdown it can.
It it can be easily generated and read by
the A I and so that it's easy for it to
keep up to date. So if you were to say OK,
I'll open a preview of this.
Read me file now and let me open up in a
window so we can see it.
So now we have a system architecture
diagram which talks about the user
interface to our we have a command line
interface and a WPF interface.
It goes into our core library,
which is the elevator dot CS.
It talks about the the ENS memory static
state,
the the calculation history that we
implemented,
as well as some external dependencies on
some system data and system math
functions.
System math functions.
Here's a component interaction flow that
talks about how these things that we just
described actually interact with each
other as you feed information to the.
Into the calculator.
Let's so let's see if there's anything.
And it's still,
it's still working on potentially
additional diagrams. So again, you know,
if you're a visual learner like I am
seeing,
seeing all that in a diagram helps me
definitely understand what we've actually
implemented and when you're working in a
lot of A I generated code.
Being able to take that code and produce
diagrams on it.
So you for example can say take this
class or this class file and create a
sequence diagram for how it actually
works and then get a really good idea of
what the functionality is actually doing.
The code is doing.
Yeah.
So let's see. We had those. So yeah,
it looks like we have another document,
another diagram.
Here's the class diagram that we asked
for.
I want to preview it.
It's in the window.
And so here's the the class diagram.
And the data flow diagram.
And you notice I I called out two
specific diagrams I wanted to see,
but it's creating additional diagrams
because I added I added a a clause that
said you know basically said any
additional documentation that you think
is appropriate.
But of course we could, you know,
we could specify exactly what what kinds
of documentation that we want to see in
the file.
And just like the just like the written
documentation,
you can you can say OK or the text
documentation you say go ahead and update
the documentation and update the mermaid
diagrams as well and then it will keep
those In Sync with the rest of the
project.
Any questions on this?
OK, so so then jump back.
To the slides,
we've seen it update the readme file.
We've seen a bit of that deployment.
We actually haven't seen a deployment
guide, so we can ask for that.
Uh.
It's it's still working on the diagrams.
Yes.
So maybe that.
So it's doing a a text coverage
visualization diagram now.
All right,
I just got a a notification that our.
Our chat mode.
Any background tasks that we asked it to
do is finished.
Yeah.
Been committed to the repository, so.
New files I created was a documentation
update or chat mode file and then since
this project has those AI assisted output
instructions,
it's logged the changes into a
conversation file and a summary file as
we've.
instructed to do.
So we have a continuing chat log or in
the project that we can refer to.
So here is one for today.
Oh,
that was one other thing I wanted to
mention that I noticed is that there was
a there was a release for copilot.
On the 20th, which was yesterday.
So if we go down to extensions and just
look for copilot.
Here's her.
Uh, Copilot chat and the.
So there was a a a new version of this
and co-piloted itself.
One of the things that I haven't
mentioned is that there are pre-release
versions that talk about the new
functionality and since there as I.
A a a conference show next week.
Yeah the you know they released that
update yesterday I think in in in
anticipation of that.
So you could actually switch to this
pre-release version and see what some of
the the the upcoming changes are.
Um.
I thought this was interesting in that it
gives you some.
Some feedback on what the actual events
are.
What are some proposals commands that you
can execute that are implemented?
Programming languages and the the other
thing that I thought was interesting was.
It's added another a model called Claude
haiku and it they priced it at at least
for me at 1/3 of a token.
And there's also reduce the price of
these older models as well.
So this is a kind of demonstrates how
things change over quickly kind of in the
UI over time and and how features will
become enabled or disabled.
Um,
one of the things I haven't pointed out
Sorry.
yet, yes.
A quick question,
was this only on the pre release version?
No, I'm not running the pre releases.
I if I to do that I'd have to switch to
the pre release version here and then you
would get updates for that.
OK.
Got it.
Yeah, I didn't want to, you know,
take a chance on habit, you know,
do something I wasn't expecting, so.
All right.
I guess that's all I thought be
interesting to see about that.
So we can go back here and this was the
documentation.
So it's produced this sequence diagram
for component interaction flow.
So let's go ahead and.
There's a well,
there's there's a a diagrams readme file.
Let's take a look at this.
So this describes the system architecture.
So there's a system architecture diagram,
a component interaction, a class diagram,
a data flow, ACICD workflow diagram,
test covers visualization.
These are all in the main README file.
So if we were to.
Review this.
And take a look at the here's the system
architecture,
the the component interaction and then I
think down at the bottom.
Is the class diagram a data flow diagram?
There's the CIACD workflow.
Here's the test coverage visualization.
And some metrics.
So obviously maintaining these document
these document diagrams is would be time
very time consuming if you're having to
do it manually and it would be certainly
one of the first tasks that you would
drop in lieu of actually working on new
code or or or or fixing bugs or.
Working on technical debt and so you can
either you know we'll talk about later
about how to how to work it into a
pipeline.
But you know it is as simple as just
running a single prompt that says go
ahead and update that that that diagram
and you can build that prompt.
To be very specific in terms of what you
what you're expecting it to do,
because here we're we're kind of letting
the the AI figure out what diagrams it
needs to create.
But you may have specific requirements or
specific kinds of documents that you'd
like,
or diagrams that you prefer that you want
to see it implement,
and you can easily do that by adding that
to a prompt and putting that in a prompt
file.
Cool.
All right, so.
Review for errors and admissions.
So here what you can say is look at the
code base.
Mhm.
And this going with our theme of being
able to identify you know technical debt
and and surface that technical debt and
and record it,
we could actually have it create
additional issues for improving the
documentation.
So this will probably take a bit to.
To run.
Oh, duplicate section headers.
Duplicate section headers.
Missing information.
So not an insignificant amount of of work
involved in updating all that
documentation,
but we can easily give this back to A I
and said go ahead and update this,
update that documentation and then we can
just review it and make any modifications
to it once we see once we see it.
Because remember,
I mean it it always there always could be
errors introduced by the AI.
So we always have to be careful about
making sure that we just don't accept
changes without.
Having somebody look at them and it's
updated our documentation documentation
file that gives us a link to the MD file
that contains some some of the diagrams.
It's updated the project overview.
This is another thing I think is
interesting in terms of using this for
project management or for for guiding
technical debt is that we could implement
a prompt that's let's go ahead and keep
these changes.
And.
Go ahead and.
As you can see,
I tend to not do things in the on the
command line.
I find it's easier just to ask the the AI
to go ahead and and do these kinds of
operations because not only will it.
Do the commit.
It will actually update the conversation
history as well as you know,
provide a a decent commit message.
So this is the prompt I wanted to talk
about is that we, you know,
let's assume that one of our major
efforts that we want to take on in terms
of addressing technical debt is that we
want to go up upgrade from.net 8 to.net 9.
And we could say just like.
Mm.
Create a plan.
Or.
Up.
Ring.
The code base so.
8.0 to 9.0 and soon there'll be a 10.0.
So it wants to run a PowerShell command
here that will add the so it's going to
do our our commit.
So for.
net and then we can and this might be
something where we would spend a probably
a good amount of time creating a prompt
file that was so that we we'd have a
comprehensive set of instructions that
would tell it what to do.
But here we can just say we want a list
of.
Great.
Epics.
And.
Tess.
Or.
Uh, pass and.
It's all right.
But you just had a high level. I mean,
we can, we can have it.
OK.
We could actually ask it to do this
really high level analysis and looking at
the project and saying what were the
changes that we would need to make in
order for us to accomplish that upgrade.
And if we were doing this with a live
system,
we could add instructions that would say
we need to minimize the amount of
downtime that we occur.
And we could have it include in that
upgrade, you know,
any database modifications that we need
to make plan for whatever downtime that
we think that we we might have.
And so we could gracefully roll out this
new upgrade, you know,
including a test plan.
And it would, you know,
it may not be the complete plan that we
would actually like to implement,
but it would give you us a really good
start on understanding what the impact of
this upgrade is going to take.
It's going to have on your code and on
your code base and help you reason
through a logical way of making that
upgrade so that you can you can deploy it.
And so you could actually take a look at
this plan and say, OK,
I need to break this plan up in sections.
And implement it in sections,
but still keep the application running
through the whole process.
O We'll see how this goes.
Any uh comments or questions while we're
waiting?
So I know I promised some of the hands on
exercises. If you like, we can all,
you know,
clone this repo and we can start to do
some things independently against the
code base.
Since we all, we all have access to this.
This repo.
How do you feel about that?
Or does this just me showing you it
executing? Is that?
Sufficient.
It's probably better this way for now
since we have troubles installing
components on our laptops,
but this is just my opinion.
Alright.
Maybe someone else would like to
volunteer,
but I don't think my laptop is ready for
what you are doing.
Eight major epochs and it has a plan.
So.
So that took a couple of minutes to
create a a whole plan for a.net 8 upgrade.
So let's.
So.
So let's see.
Let's take a look at what it created and.
See what it's.
Uh.
Where's that plan?
That's it right here.
Risk level is medium.
Estimated time would be two to three
weeks.
Motivation, performance improvement,
security updates, long term support,
new language features, better tooling.
Projects affected would be our calculator
project, our WPF project and our tests.
Infrastructure would be the the CICD
pipeline, local development environments,
build scripts.
So these are the major epochs,
pre upgrade preparation,
establish a baseline research,
breaking changes, prepare.
For the environment upgrade takes three
to five days.
Development environment upgrade,
project files and dependencies,
code modernization.
Test testing and quality assurance,
CIC pipeline upgrade documentation and
training, then post upgrade validation,
then a detailed task breakdown of each
each one of these steps. So the.
Pre upgrade preparation is document the
current test coverage,
run performance benchmarks for baseline
comparisons, capture current build times,
document the current memory usage
patterns, export dependency tree.
Create a snapshot of the current
artifacts and the deliver will be a
baseline metrics MD with performance data.
So you can see this is a pretty detailed
Uh.
plan. It's fairly comprehensive.
There may be things that we that's
missing or not quite, but.
Here it's calling out in a very specific
versions of things that needed to be
updated to for compatibility and create
the feature branch.
Develop at the development at the
environment upgrade.
Update the Visual Studio on V codes.
Uh, project files and dependencies.
Package, you know, package references,
code modernization.
Now where's the break?
I skipped over the breaking change
analysis.
Yeah, here it is. Review the.
net 9 breaking change documentation.
Review the C# 13 language changes.
Check the WPF specific changes in.net 9.
Review the system data table changes.
Identify the APIs that marked as obsolete.
And document the potential impact on the
the the calculator code base.
And we could in turn feed this right back
right back into the AI and say, OK,
can you take report back on what you see
in terms of these actual breaking changes
in the documentation that could affect
the app and then and then and then work
on actually doing it the.
Implement a plan to actually implement
those modifications.
Any any questions on that?
Right. So John,
what you've got here 8 to 9,
Oh.
it's it's just an example and it's kind
of very applicable to what we're facing
on our existing code base,
only maybe not between N9 but different
Right.
nodes but I.
Right.
I think this would be it.
It's actually very applicable.
We're about to kick off a exactly project
like this and I would love to utilize
that to the extent possible.
So I'm not sure Peter and Sam how how we
Sure.
can utilize what I think this is just an
example, but I I think.
If if we will, we use that as a practical.
Evidence of usefulness of what we're
learning here.
How far away are we from being able to at
least attempt?
Hmm.
Well, you know going from.
net 8:00 to 9:00,
that's a little bit simpler exercise
because it's all.net Core.
What we need to do is uplift from the
classic.net framework to.net Core,
Sure.
which is a much bigger lift and our
challenges will be in the third party
Mhm.
area.
Not so much in the.NET itself,
but in I mean in general the steps should
Oh.
be similar,
except you know we'll be doing it in
Visual Studio.
Mhm.
Oh.
I don't know what else to say about that.
I mean,
in theory it's as simple as retarget the
framework, look for the breaking changes,
Yeah.
you know, uplift,
accommodate the new language features,
get the box worked out and keep rolling.
And then of course regression test
everything.
Yeah, yeah,
I I think the this agent approach would
Let's not forget about that.
be good to help us to identify and
isolate any potential things that we may
overlook or not catch at the beginning as
we analyze it.
So I think this is this would be valuable
to at least start and then we can at
Right.
least start to evaluate the the load that.
This.
It would take to actually perform this
uplift.
Yeah,
so I I think this lines up with the
principle.
This is just an assistant or internal
assistant, right?
But I think we have a structure here.
It's it's quite comprehensive that we're
able to generate something like this.
I'm not saying this is complete,
but it's would be then up to us to to
utilize it to improve and extend.
But this is quite promising and it's very
applicable to, you know, again,
different notes,
but very applicable to what we're facing.
Yeah, I don't disagree with that.
I mean it's it's good to follow those
general steps.
I would not pay too much attention to the
estimates because I I don't know how it
came up with those. This could go much,
And that was my question.
much.
This could go much faster or much slower.
It all depends on many things.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, I'm,
I'm not sure what else to elaborate here.
So in in terms of usefulness of Copilot,
there is no question about it. I mean,
we'll be using it,
be chatting with it all day long and you
know, make progress.
Well,
so maybe at at some point when we start
to digest this,
but I would like us to start thinking
about it.
What would be the practical examples how
we can utilize it just to mature this
knowledge and.
And kind of bring it into the mainstream
of of business and as I mentioned,
I think that John is available to to help
us with that as well.
So I think you know this is just the
initial, we're scratching the surface,
but I think the potential here is quite
impressive.
I agree.
So I have to go about how it came up at
the time and it has a it claimed it used
a very, I think sophisticated.
Way of approaching that kind of the
question, but.
The other question I have.
I guess what I'm trying to figure out.
I wanted to figure out what the units
when you say that's an hour.
John,
I think you missed the word in there,
but maybe it will figure it out. Anyway,
it's very good at figuring out missing
Yeah.
words and typos.
Can can you guys actually read that fast?
I did not catch all that. Sorry.
Yeah, that's all I'm getting to.
Just the headers.
So that's this is the bottom line is what
I was looking for.
A mid level developer working without
major interruptions with proper tools and
access complete this well defined low
complexity task from start to finish.
In approximately 60 minutes with an 80%
conference level. So that is what I was,
I was looking for how many developers
it's going to take to do this work.
So when they say it's two or three days,
they're saying that that's gonna be about.
You know, one developer,
two to three days will work.
Um.
Yeah, I'm sorry,
I'm kind of getting down a rabbit hole
here,
but I think it's kind of interesting.
So it's, you know,
anywhere between 1020% to 40% faster with
AI assistance looks like.
Yeah, AI has no impact on waiting.
Can help.
So a revised plan.
I would.
I would treat this as an educated guess,
right? Yeah, I.
Estimating in software project I think is
just more of an art than a science.
All right.
So I think that was kind of a fun
exercise.
Um.
I can reduce your errors.
I also have a point here that you know
you can you can you can take an approach
where you know you trust but verify where
you say you ask it to generate something.
But then as we did yesterday at the when
we had it look at those two
implementations you can always.
Create a chat mode that will produce some
output and then have another model
actually review that output and because
the way that AI works,
it's non deterministic.
It's very often that that that that
you'll find that actually having an
update to an output that it created will
cause it to include additional things
that it hadn't thought of before or
remove things that it didn't that it
thinks.
Can be done in a in a in a better way.
So having a second look at something is
not a bad idea,
or having two models generate the same
output and then compare them.
Is also not a bad idea as well.
So I think from a quality control
perspective it it kind of makes a lot of
sense since it's AI is doing all the work
anyway, you might as well have it,
you know,
help you with those by doing those
multiple implementations.
It's kind of like it's called double
entry accounting where everything is done
twice and then the output's compared to
make sure that it's correct.
Uh, some meta instructions.
So I think if we look at our AI.
Uh, projects.
This is the guy.
All right. So if we look at that.
What I what I mean by meta instructions
are instructions that apply to
instruction files or prompt files.
So I I created one this yesterday.
And we and we've talked a bit about about
these,
but here's a here's an instruction file
and I use a kind of a naming convention.
If it if it ends in instructions dot MD,
it's an instruction file if it ends in
prompts.
dot instruction file.
It means that this is an instruction file
for for prompts and so here we're looking
for an instruction file for prompting and
this one will provides A mandatory
requirements.
For prompt files.
So this is an instruction file for
prompts and this one here is a chat mode
in instructions and here is one for
creating prompts provides comprehensive.
Oh this one sorry.
I misspoke on this slightly. What this is,
is it provides requirements for all
prompts that generate instruction files.
So this this is very meta in the sense
that it only goes.
It only actually looks at files that are
prompts dot instruction files,
and there are a few of those in.
In here.
So here where it says instructions dot
prompt, that is an instruction file.
It's a prompt for creating an instruction
file and this can get really meta in the
sense that I have.
In my in my mind I work.
In my mind the way I think about it is
that the instruction files are are the
the deliverable that we're trying to
accomplish here.
If this is the instruction files are what
are actually used to guide the code
implementations and all of the the.
All of the artifacts,
the other meta files for guiding the
creation of the instruction files or
creating the prompts.
I don't really consider it as a part of
the project per SE,
but they're actually just part of things
that you would use to help you create the
instruction files that you're going to be
using.
Using it in a course of implementing a
solution.
So what these instruction files for
creating prompts and creating
instructions and prompt files are doing
for you is they're just providing a
template or a pattern.
And defining the requirements of what you
want to see in the ultimate instruction
files themselves.
And so I've and I kind of came about
these from essentially doing them in kind
of a reverse order. I say, OK,
I want to create a prop that creates an
instruction file.
Then I want to turn that prompt,
which is a simple prompt that I might
have just entered in the chat window into
a more comprehensive profile by saying I
want to create a prompt file now of this
prompt that I used to create an
instruction file.
And then in some cases I've said OK,
I now have a prompt,
but I want to create a prompt that will
create that prompt,
which is I haven't had. Well,
I actually have had a good use for that
in that it allows me if I make
modifications to that prompt file or
other things that I want to revert them,
I can actually just go back and rerun
them.
The the prompt creation,
the prompt that created the prompt and
then run the and then and then from there
I can run that prompt to create the
instruction files if that makes any sense.
Alright, so the this, yeah.
So can John,
can you pause here for a second?
So I have a question for our team.
Do you guys understand all this?
Go ahead.
Like do you know how to create an
instruction file from scratch?
Should we go through that exercise as a
team?
Because I I can't say that I'm like
comfortable with this. So my first.
Um.
The question to John would be something
like OK, if I'm starting a new project,
do I start typing from scratch or do I
copy paste one of your files and start
with that? Which is better?
I would say,
I would say in some cases it's better to
start and I'll talk to talk tomorrow when
we get into the more of a Greenfield.
If you're starting a new project,
there are some files that you can't you
you don't have really an opportunity to
generate through AI because.
No, you could try,
but things like business rules and
requirements and use cases and things
like that you can you have to provide it
some input in order for it to understand
the problem domain.
But.
So,
so let's say we have this legacy project.
What would I do?
I open GitHub Copilot chat and I say,
hey Copilot,
generate me the instruction files by
looking at my code base.
Is that a good start?
Yeah, that is. I have a prompt for that.
This is this is a pretty interesting one.
OK.
I I need to update it a little bit and
just as an aside, you know I've given it.
So.
This is a public repo in GitHub.
And as I make modifications and all this,
it'll all go back in that repo,
so it'll evolve overtime.
OK,
so I could use the prompt from your
generate instructions prompt MD.
Start with that. OK, great.
Right, right.
You could open up this repo and you could
drag this file directly into your project
into your instruction folder and now it
under now your now your solution
understands how to do that kind of work.
So I wanted to open this in a preview and
just.
Talk about what it does here,
and this is an interesting thing.
Another let me let me show you this first
and then I'll talk about something that's
even simpler.
So let's just open this into a window so
we can see the whole thing.
So it basically goes through an analysis
phase where it looks at the project
structure,
the existing patterns and conventions,
the technology stack,
and then goes through and generates
instruction files from what it learned
about your project.
So what this is trying to do is say.
Do a code base search,
look at the whole project and then go
ahead and create general instructions
like a read me file,
project level instructions which looks
like this would be basically some AI
assistant guidelines which we've done.
Project overview, the technology stack.
So this is kind of like A at the project
level, at a very high level.
What does this project consist of?
And so it's going to.
OK,
so so if I run it on a legacy code code
base, that's not ideal.
Would the instruction files reflect that
state and provide instructions that are
not perfect to follow?
Well,
what it actually does is it's not
actually, well,
the only time it actually looks at your
code base is here when it's looking at
the project structure and technologies,
the the patterns it can see and the
conventions that you're using and the
technology stack that you're using.
Then it goes ahead and pays instruction
files that are specific to those tasks,
right?
So if you just say if you're using C# as
an example,
what it's going to do is it's actually
going to utilize.
Standards and practices from the from
Microsoft and other places that describe
what how C# code should be written
theoretically and it will create an
instruction file which is targeted at.
At writing good C# code, it's not.
OK, So what I'm trying to figure out is,
is there a risk of generating an
imperfect instructions file?
Well,
of course it's always a risk because it's
AI. It's non deterministic, right?
And and how?
So how do I go about like improving that
instruction file after I generated it
from a bad code base and I'm not saying.
Well, you would, I would,
it would be a review, right?
Do a do a review and I would do a team
review of those instructions and say,
well,
do we agree or do not agree with all of
these instructions? Make your,
make your modifications.
So there's instruction files to reflect
what you actually expect because they're.
You know,
we're giving it very generic instructions
and it's giving us very detailed output,
but it's making assumptions along the way.
And so we want to validate that those
assumptions that it's making are
consistent with what our expectations are.
So we can either provide those
expectations upfront when we say to go
ahead and generate these instruction
files by specifying more precisely what
we want, and to a certain extent,
that's done in the instruction file that
I've created for.
Which is the one of those meta
instruction files,
which is an instruction file for creating
instruction files, right?
So you're a technical writer and produce
a markdown instruction file that guides
contributors on how to create an
instruction file consistently.
So you if you if you add this to your
project and then you have it generate the
instruction files that they all those
instruction files will conform to this
this instruction file and you'll get a
consistent output,
but you could actually add.
Additional instructions that are much
more specific to your project in terms of
how you want those instructions generated
and that will impact the instructions
that actually get created.
Or you can just go ahead and say, OK,
generate them based on the basics that
we're talking about here and then we'll
go back and we'll do essentially a code
review on those instructions,
which would be something I would strongly
recommend just to make sure that it's not
producing something that is.
Different from what you would like to see
the code conform to. Does that make sense?
I I think so.
Right.
So so they but they you know the the the,
I think the crux of it is that we want to
make sure that that we have instruction
files that conform to what our
expectation is of the code base when you
run that get the generation.
This file for generating instructions,
it will use whatever instructions that
you provide in order to create it.
And again,
this is telling you essentially what kind
of output that you're gonna get for all
these different aspects of your practice.
The standards, your practices,
your error handling instructions,
the styling, A styling guide. You know,
all of these would be things that you'd
kind of want to review and make sure
they're conforming.
So, so let me ask a practical question.
Let's say I want to create.
Yeah.
Let's say I have a repo that works with
Azure cloud resources and for all of my
scripting I want to restrict my team to
PowerShell.
I don't want anybody to be coding in bash.
Is is there a way to capture that what
what this rule what I just said in the
instruction files?
So when I ask for you know new scripts to
be generated,
make sure it's all in PowerShell,
not bash.
Or is that not a instruction files thing
to do? Like I don't know.
Well, you, yeah, you well,
you could definitely go into like the
projects one which which talked about you
know how you know the project,
the AI assistance guidelines etcetera,
project overview.
The technology that you use,
you can be specific about those
technologies and you can specify that you
want to use PowerShell and when you get
into the practices here you can also
apply.
Instruction or add instructions here that
says when you're working in this
particular area of the project or with
this kind of file that you want to
restrict this to just PowerShell output
and not to.
So where?
So which section would you type that in?
Um.
That API design,
I would say that would go into the
development workflow practices,
but farther down in this generate
instructions document we get into we
talked about style briefly.
Testing.
This is also something you probably want
to take a close look at and then I get
into technology specific instructions.
So it goes through then and identifies
what technologies that you're using.
And you could actually, you know,
you you said you wanted to when you're
So yeah,
so let's say the developer comes along
doing dealing with Azure, right? The.
and they open the compiler chat and
they're like,
give me a script to generate a new
storage account in Azure and I expect the
answer to come back in PowerShell,
not Bash without.
Right.
The developer saying anything or asking
for that specific language?
Is there a way to enforce that with this
instruction files?
That's what I'm wondering about.
Right. So yeah,
so so here we have this this idea that
we're generating these instructions for
the particular technology.
H.
It says if you you detect a cloud service,
then you would create some appropriate
folders underneath your instructions
folder.
There are instructions specifically for
Azure and that's or AWS or Google Cloud
or whatever it happens to be,
and in that instruction file you could
then specify specifically that all of the
work needs to be done in PowerShell.
So when he so when he asked then to
create a storage account,
that storage account code would be
written in PowerShell.
OK. Thanks.
So we can we want let's why don't we take
this instruction file and let's make sure
that we have it in our.
I think it's this guy here, yeah.
Yeah,
I just gotta gotta bounce back and forth
between different projects.
So this is the one here.
Do we have that instruction file in our
project?
As I move some over um.
2.
Prompts issues.
No, it doesn't like it gets here,
so why don't we?
create create an instruction folder.
Yeah.
And then?
I'll go back to the other project.
Uh.
This file.
So we wanted to generate instructions
prompts, so I'll just copy that.
We'll go back to our project and to our
instruction folder that we just created.
And we'll just add it there.
So now we have this is oh,
it's actually a prompt,
so let me move it into prompts.
Alright, so now we have a prompt file.
Let's clear up our our context.
And then say we want to execute the
generate instructions prompt.
On our calculator.
So then we should see instruction files
now show up in our instruction folder.
Once it goes and looks at the code base.
OK.
Great. So that's our entry point.
Yeah, this is Oh yeah.
So the the first effort would be take a
look at this generate instructions prompt
file and make sure that it's what you
want to see in the output into your in
terms of the instruction file.
So you you kind of in my mind the the
workflow is that you.
Create all of this front,
create all this front matter 1st and
starting with examining these profiles
and making sure that they meet your
expectations.
Because now that we've copied it into
this project,
it's actually part of the source of the
of your project.
Rather than mine,
and you can make whatever modifications
you want to in order for it to actually
map to what you expect.
Notice that it's created a C folder and a
WPF folder, but it's yet to create a.
An instruction file for it,
but here's the readme file that we asked
it to create.
It describes what it's learned about that
project.
And this is a good place to make sure
that it's your that it's clear about what
the what the application is trying to do
so because this becomes important.
OK,
here's the technology stack that it's
that is determined or it's found.
That it's a monolithic application.
With with a clear separation between the
UI layers.
And now it's going to create the the
instruction files. Questions.
In.
I'm I'm gonna let others ask some
questions as well.
I don't want to take up all your time.
O Here's the roject instructions.
Yeah.
OK, I do have a question. So OK,
we generated this, it says.net 8.
You push this to the repo,
next guy clones the repo and he's asking
a question like OK,
generate a new class for a new entity and
use a certain language feature that only
exists in.net 9.
What's what they are going to say about
that? Is it going to complain, say, hey,
you cannot do this because this project
is.net 8 or is it just going to,
I don't know, do something else?
Oh, we can try something like that.
Did.
If we if we could come up with a feature
that we that we know that we could try to
implement.
So in other words,
I'm trying to figure out if AI is going
to detect this conflict between what the
developer is asking for versus what the
Right.
instruction files are guiding it for or
towards.
Right.
So let's see. Let's go back to.
Um.
Let me see if I can come up with an
example.
I.
All right, so how do we stand to luck?
Now it's starting to produce the generic
instructions.
And one thing I would point out just
about this is that you know these
potentially error handling instructions
the the might be something that you would
apply across multiple projects and you
may only need to generate at one time.
Time and modify it one time and then be
able to use it from project to project to
project, right?
All right,
so I have an example of something that we
can.
Take a look at.
Let's see. Good way to show this would be.
Go here to.
The prompts were close.
One that's created here.
So I did a I did a a request asking for a
new feature and it told me that this this
this members feature required members
feature.
Here.
Doesn't exist in.net 8, but doesn't.net 9.
Right. So, so the question would be,
you know,
OK.
how do we get AI to actually create
something like that?
And before we we get into that,
I think we need to let this prompt finish
so that we have our complete set of
instruction files.
So if you don't specify what kind of
instruction files you want,
does it always give you the exact same
list or is this totally random or is it
like based on the project?
Yes.
Um.
Like I'm just looking at the names of
those files like projects, practices,
error handling.
If I ask the same question again on a
Well, yeah, the.
different project,
am I gonna get the same files or
different files?
Well,
remember that the only question we asked
was to run this prompt.
Right now in the in the past what I've
done is actually written this prompt just
Yes.
very simply and says say generate
instruction files for this project and
with that very simple instruction.
It then went and figured out what the
technology was and it kind of implemented
something very similar to this.
And then I've taken that and codified
that into a into a a prop file that's
more explicit about what the expectations
are so.
Oh, OK. So that comes from your file,
right? It's listed there. OK, thanks.
Hey.
Yes, right, right, right.
All right, so we have C# instructions.
We've got WPF instructions that still
have yet to be created.
We talked about project instructions and
here's a style instructions. It basically.
It talks about naming conventions,
directory structures.
In terms of what it's expecting or what
it sees testing instructions.
And notice that it's following wants to
follow a test driven development
methodology.
I think maybe we could probably
demonstrate this by just making a
modification in the code and then ask it
to evaluate.
That that particular instruction file.
So let's just see what happens when we
get.
All right.
So it's now finally working on the WPF
instructions.
And what I like about this is that it it
doesn't,
it's not technology specific in terms of
its in terms of the prompt.
But if it's producing technology specific
instructions.
While we're waiting for this to finish,
do you mind if I ask a different question?
It's like completely off topic from
Gabriel's question. Yeah,
Well, yeah, sure, Vanna. Yeah, sure.
so I I guess my question is like more so
we we I think a lot of these instruction
files sort of.
tell the AI exactly what you want it to
produce.
So like it gives you like a format of
like some sort of instruction file or
maybe some guidelines for your C# code.
But can you also do like instruction
files that determine like other behaviors
of the AI? So for example,
like could you have an instruction file
that tells
which instruction files you want it to
use for certain things.
Yeah, sure.
I mean that there's a couple of ways of
doing that.
One would be there's a an apply to
section here.
We talked about this yesterday where it's
saying that this instruction file will
only apply to dot CS files.
Right,
so so that way you're controlling what
Right.
it's actually using.
And then if you create a a a a prompt
file,
you can actually specifically reference
instruction files that you want to
include in that prompt.
Oh, and if you create a chat mode file,
you can do the same thing where you
specify that when you're actually
executing chat modes,
and we'll talk about that later today,
that that only should use specific
instruction files,
so you have the ability to control.
What what it uses in terms of, you know,
what it brings into the context of the of
the prompt in order for it to be able to
execute it.
So it looks like this completed.
We now have our WPF instruction file here.
That describes.
What we want. So it has here a.net 8.
0 version of that we had I think in our
project file an instruction for.net 8.
So I think if we go in.
1.
Yeah, you know, you know,
to be honest with you,
my guess is if we go into the code.
And we we we reference um.
In our evaluator program,
let's see if we can find a place.
We're looking for a class definition.
This isn't it.
All right,
so here we have a public static.
Uh.
Require members,
public interface required string.
So we're looking for a like a member up
here.
Is there anything that we can use for
that?
The end.
Let me search for public.
There's nothing in that file.
There's looks like 3 here,
so public static so.
So let's just add a member to the class.
I think that would be the best approach.
So if we go here,
we just say into this class we want to
add um.
So it sees that.
To start a class.
So let's just do this then.
So my first question is,
will the compiler catch this? It doesn't.
It's not being flagged here in the IDE.
But uh, we do a.net.
Well.
The build succeeded.
So let's clear up our context here.
Let's open U our evaluator class.
Let's say um.
So John,
I I mean I I'm not like on top of the
latest C# language features,
but there's a good chance that required
keyword was available in.net 8 as well.
Well, I I I asked when I.
The prompt that I used was give me a
simple feature that's that's implemented
So.
that's available in.
net 9 that's not available in.net 8 so.
Well, let's look at the project,
the calculator dot CS project file.
Let's see what we are targeting. Is it.
net 8? I mean, that's what it said it was.
I assume it's true, but we could confirm.
Yeah, so let's.
Oh, in there. See that? Yeah. So target.
net 8. That's good.
Starting.
So if you go back to the class and it
does not highlight,
it doesn't complain about it.
There's a good chance required is
available in c.net 8.
Um.
It's, you know,
it's it's a language feature,
so it's not even a.net 8 thing.
It's more like C# 11 or 12 or something
like that.
So we could try like if you type in
something like params.
The params it would be like supposedly
params collections were added in C# 13
Where?
which is only available in.NET 9,
so you could try something like that.
You wanna put something inside of the?
Wait.
Yeah,
just hit enter after that public required
string configuration and just type in.
Public params. I want to see what happens.
Public space.
Params. Does it recognize that?
No, it does.
It does not recognize that it.
Whoops.
Space. Yeah, yeah,
it doesn't recognise that. So, OK,
so that's good.
So my question was really about the
copilot chat. So I type in a question.
They're saying, OK,
give me an or or add a new collection.
New params collection to the evaluator
class. What is AI going to say about that?
If in the instructions files I said we
are targeting.
NET 8 and we know that the C version that
goes with.NET 8 does not support params.
I want to see if it detects a conflict.
Uh, add the um.
Just say yeah,
add the new collection of type params to
the evaluator class.
Yeah, something like that.
That should do it.
Yeah.
I just want to see if it actually does it
or it complaints.
Looks like I just named it params.
Yeah, so it uh.
It's basically creating a collection
anyway of a different type, which is.
Technically not a bad thing.
OK, so I didn't complain,
it just basically made it happen anyway,
a different way, something like that.
Right. Yes. Yep.
What would if you said it? Did it?
If it did it wrong and like be more
insistent that you want a params,
maybe it would complain, right?
In terms of what would you change the?
Yeah.
I don't know if we wanna try to bully it
into doing something wrong, but.
Yeah, I don't know.
Well, you kind of want to, you know, you.
Well, it wasn't.
Let's see.
Yeah,
so I I had this experience before where I
asked it to do something.
It did something else and I'm like, OK,
this is not what I asked for,
do what I asked for.
Then it did something else.
So it it took a few iterations to get to
the point where I arrived at where I want
it to be.
You know, that's, yes,
that's not uncommon,
That's why I ask this question.
particularly if you're dealing with,
you know,
specific syntax that you're looking to to
implement.
I I just made a mistake and undid all of
our instruction generation,
so I'm rerunning it.
So.
Yeah, I think, yeah.
Yeah, John. So we don't, I'm sorry,
I I was just gonna say we don't need to
get stuck on this particular request.
Maybe we can continue.
I was just curious what it would do.
Yeah.
Let's see,
let's bring up a different project.
And to say clear our context and say.
I have a.
And this is ask mode, I think. Good.
So we won't make any changes. No,
we'll ask.
I.
Anyway,
we need I need something to fill up the
time.
Well,
to regenerate those instruction files.
So.
So maybe that's a decent prompt.
So.
There's params.
So this would likely do a pretty good job
of doing what you're asked,
at least in terms of prohibiting the AI
from producing any code that would target
dotnet dine.
OK.
I get. I get the idea.
Right.
So,
so we just gotta get good at expressing
what we really want. It's.
Well, that's that is true. You know,
I find instead of writing syntax,
I'm tweaking prompts and you know,
instruction file language in order for it
to properly interpret,
you know what I'm trying to accomplish.
That's.
That I that I think is the new.
Paradigm that we that we tend to work a
lot in now that we're generating code
through AI is just and that's why I think
it's a good idea to encapsulate this into
an instruction file like this what we're
saying here because that's a a
requirement that we don't want to have
the AI.
Violate and therefore we can we can apply
that.
Obviously you know as we saw if you
actually hand wrote code it wouldn't
compile.
So there's there's a there's a
automatically a quality gate there for
any using any.net 9 features.
So,
but this will keep it from generating any
code that would fail in compilation if
you were if it if it actually was
generating some,
you know if it actually did have this
this instruction file and didn't have any
instructions about the.
The version of net that you were using,
it would still be able to interpret from
the project file like we saw that it was
using net eight and then it would
recognize when it tried to actually run a
test or run the code that the build would
fail and then it would try to take steps
to try and address that.
It would recognize that this feature
doesn't.
Isn't supported and it would then go back
and try to implement it in a way that was
supported in NET 8.
So I think you're pretty safe there,
even without this instruction file that
even if it did generate the code,
it would be able to recognize that it was.
I'm gonna run and then take it out and
replace it with something else.
Yeah, I mean in this case that is true.
But you know,
if you have like a large team,
any projects,
you know there could be a developer
creating a new project that targets.
net 9 and then you try to, you know,
add that like create a new program that
combines multiple assemblies from
multiple places later and.
Basically it is possible that they would
generate or produce an assembly that is
not compatible with the rest of it until
later. So time would be wasted, you know,
things like that. But it's not a big deal.
I I think I know what to do with this.
So thank you.
I'm just seeing if I can.
Yeah, that's a good one.
So is it gonna do it or is it gonna
complain?
Yeah, that's what I'm trying to see.
I see that it's installed.
Yeah, I didn't complain.
It just makes it happen.
Probably should have like a rule that
specifically prohibits this sort of thing,
right?
Well,
so this instruction file is supposed to
be applicable to the repo, right?
Not just a single project within the repo.
Yeah,
I'm trying to see where that ended up.
Yeah, let's look at the Alley 2 and.
Maybe the answer is in there somewhere.
So we asked for a new. Let's go up here.
Changed the readme. Oh,
it's in roject instructions.
And someplace in here it's it's we said
it's.
Yeah.
Targeting.net 9. Oh, you know something?
I think I.
2.
Do I keep this?
May have been my mistake.
Because I don't see that construction
anymore.
This is generate. Oh,
this is generating those instruction
files.
I'm gonna see where do we create that.
Yeah, I think we did this over here.
Right. Uh, no, I don't think it's there.
Yeah, I I saw you do it.
I I'm just not sure if it was persisted
or it went to the right place.
Well,
I I made a mistake and I undid some of
these instruction files.
It looks like it's finished creating them.
This is the generate instruction prompt.
It hasn't actually created that project
yet,
but I'm still looking for that
instruction file.
Looks like this instruction file does say
that you're supposed to use.net 8.
0 consistently across all projects.
Right, it does say that, so.
It should be prohibited.
So when it says apply to star star,
does that mean everything in the whole
repo?
Yes.
Oh yeah,
so we generated that one instruction file.
Maybe we just asked it to create it,
but we didn't actually implement it.
Maybe that's.
What we.
Yeah, I.
Well, it looks like we interrupted it.
All right, so what I'll at lunch, I'll,
I'll recreate these instruction files so
we can get going through and I'll look at
where I'll see if I can add an
instruction file and we can do kind of do
that demonstration again and show how
that works.
So we also want to kind of revisit this
idea of incorporating this into the,
you know,
the pull request in the pipeline and make
sure that we can enforce these rules that
we're defining systematically and across
the whole project.
And what I also thought we would do is
that in our in our project here is
identify areas that are that still need
testing.
And then we can kind of go through the
process of implementing those tests and
and and there and and showing essentially
how we can modify this existing code by
adding additional tests and then adding
implementation.
To support that.
All right, so.
Only one file changed,
so let me go ahead and.
So this is the other point that I wanted
to make with these instruction files is
that we can go back and we can add or ask
to say and I have a an instruction file
that that a prop file that will do this.
There's a go ahead and compare the
project,
this file or the whole file against those
instruction files and report back where
we now deviate from those instructions.
So if we go back to thinking about that
generate instruction files that produces
all these.
You know technology and project specific
instructions.
We can then go and ask ask the AI to
evaluate the project against those
instructions because those instructions
are not.
And specifically targeted into the
implementation that we have here,
they're really targeted towards the
technology that we're using because we're
not really not asking it to do anything
other than analyze what technologies and
practices are in place.
And then we can go back and compare that
against the actual.
Implementation that we see against the
instruction files and it'll produce a
list of things that deviate from that.
So here when I ran this against this one
evaluator CS file.
It's told us that the C# stop convention
has a that the code is actually compliant
with that with that that it has the XML
documentation that we had created earlier.
It's got.
It complies with the error handling
instructions and and the code quality
instructions.
It did find one issue which was a
namespace style issue which it thinks is
minor and that the old style brace
namespace instead of file scope
namespaces.
And it recommends a code fix for for that.
Here's a another issue where there's an
unnecessary class which is the app
setting, so it found that.
And.
Here's another issue with the, you know,
excessive white space which violates our
style instructions.
It found a A to do for implementing a
logging behavior and we have an
instruction that identifies that.
So we need to either remove the to do or
update the comment since the feature is
already complete.
So it's recognized that the to do is
actually comment is not needed anymore.
And then it gives us kind of a an
overview of how it how this file conforms
to those instructions files that we
created and points out areas where where
it could be improved.
So it generally considers this to be
excellent and well aligned.
Now I think that if you did the same
thing in in your solution,
it would produce quite a a different
output depending upon how well you guys
were are able to to implement your own
coding standards.
But this is I think a good way of looking
at an existing code base and then saying,
you know,
generate these instruction files that are
specific to the project and technology
that you're actually implemented and then
can then comparing the actual
implementation.
To those instruction files and seeing
where there are deviations and then you
can actually then as I discussed,
as we did yesterday,
is have it create these these issue files
and potentially put those directly into
Azure DevOps as tasks that need to be
taken on and.
And implemented and using this background
feature that you could actually have it,
you could assign it and have it implement
these things on individual branches and
then.
And then take those and merge those
branches back into the into the main
branch once they've been implemented and
tested. So I think this provides,
I think a strong way to get a code base
back up into a more of a Evergreen state
by identifying where you've got.
Technical debt and where you can easily
pare down that technical debt with
assistance of AI,
which is I think really a sweet spot for
using AI assisted code is attacking
technical debt and paying it down.
Any questions there?
All right.
Why don't we break for lunch and then
when we come back,
we can pick it up from there.
OK. Thank you.
Sounds good.
Thank you.
Sure.